in those days there was no king in
Israel and in those days the tribe of
the Danites was seeking an inheritance
for itself to dwell in for until that
day their inheritance among the tribes
of Israel had not fallen to them so the
children of Dan sent five men of their
family from their territory man of Valor
from Zoda
and Ishmael to spy out the land and
search it they said to them go search
the land so they went to the mountains
of Ephraim to the house of Micah and
lodged there while they were at the
house of Micah they recognized the voice
of the young Levite they turned aside
and said to him who brought you here
what are you doing in this place
what do you have here the sand so Micah
did for me he has hired me and I have
become his priest please inquire of God
that we may know whether the journey on
which we will go will be prosperous go
in peace the presence of the Lord will
be with you on your way so the five men
departed and went to Liege
they saw the people who were there how
they dwelt safely in the manner of the
sidonians quiet and secure there were no
rulers in the land who might put them to
shame for anything they were far from
the sidonians
and they had no ties with anyone
then the spies came back to their
brethren at zorah and eshtaol and their
brethren said to them what is your
report arise let us go up against them
for we have seen the land and indeed it
is very good would you do nothing do not
hesitate to go and enter to possess the
land when you go you will come to a
secure people in a large land for God
has given it into your hands a place
where there is no lack of anything that
is on the earth and six hundred men of
the family of the Danites went from
there from zorah and eshtaol armed with
weapons of war then they went up and
encamped at Kiev cheering in Judah
therefore they call that place Mayhan a
dam to this day there it is west of Kiev
cheering and they passed from there to
the mountains of Ephraim and came to the
house of Micah when the five men who had
gone to spy out the country of Liege
answered and said to their brethren do
you know that there are in these houses
an ephod household idols a carved image
and a molded image now therefore
consider what you should do so they
turned aside there and came to the house
of the young Levite man to the house of
Micah and greeted him the six hundred
men armed with their weapons of war who
were of the children of Dan stood by the
entrance of the gate then the five men
who had gone to spy out the land went up
venturing there they took the carved
image the effort the household idols and
the molded energy the priest stood at
the entrance of the gate with the six
hundred men who were armed with weapons
of war when these went into Micah's
house and took the car bridge the ephod
and the household idols and the molded
image the priest said to them what are
you doing
be quiet put your hand over your mouth
and
come with us be a father and a priest to
us is it better for you to be a priest
to the household of one man or that you
be a priest to a tribe and a family in
Israel so the priests heart was glad and
he took the e friend the household idols
and the carved image and took his place
among the people
then they turned and departed and put
the little ones the livestock and the
goods in front of them when they were a
good way from the house of Micah the men
who were in the houses near Micah's
house gathered together and overtook the
children of Dan and they called out to
the children of Dan so they turned
around and said to Micah what ails you
that you have gathered such a company
you have taken away my God's which I
made and the priests and you have gone
away now what more do I have how can you
say to me what ails you do not let your
voice be heard among us lest angry men
fall upon you and you lose your life
with the lives of your household then
the children of Dan went their way and
when Microsoft that they were too strong
for him he turned and went back to his
house so they took the things Micah had
made and the priests who had belonged to
him and went too late to her people
quiet and secure and they struck them
with the edge of the sword and burned
the city with fire there was no
deliverer because it was far from siting
and they had no ties with anyone
it was in the valley that belongs to
Beth rehad so they rebuilt the city and
dwelt there and they called the name of
the city dan after the name of Dan their
father who was born to Israel however
the name of the city formerly was laid
then the children of Dan set up for
themselves the carved image and Jonathan
the son of Gershon the son of Manasseh
and his sons were priests to the tribe
of Dan until the day of the captivity of
the land so they set out for themselves
Micah's carved image which he made all
the time that the house of God was in
Shiloh
[Music]